---
title: "Quick-start guide"
---
# Quick-start guide

The evan.network provides a large area of functionalities. To get an initial overview of the
different basic components and possibilities, an application to create tasks and assign them to
other people, is perfect.

[![Taskboard](/public/tutorial/taskboard_example.png){:width="50%"}](/public/tutorial/taskboard_example.png)

The following instructions will guide you through the basic applications of the evan.network and
explain them in detail, so you can use the evan.network taskboard DApp easily. After you have gone
through the different points you are qualified

- to get in contact with other people on the evan.network
- to manage DApps and use them
- to use the Taskboard example DApp

The first thing you need is, of course, a user account. So let's start on
[https://dashboard.test.evan.network](https://dashboard.test.evan.network).

## [Create an Identity](/tutorial/create-identity)

Here we have the first big difference to any classical multi-user system: there is no central place
where user credentials are stored. A account is just a private key, and each user has full control
over where it is stored. It usually never leaves the computer you are sitting in front of. As does
the password, it's never transmitted over the network. If you do want to use your account from a
different machine, you have to explicitely ex- and import it.

So, while your credentials are private, local and under your full control, the profile data
associated with it are global, equally accessible from anywhere, stored on potentially every machine
participating in the evan.network and impossible to delete as long as there is at least one client
left.

This is what we call the Smart Contract. Why smart? Because although it is stored "everywhere", you
can only do everything with it in case you have the credentials. The access happens through a
strictly defined interface. If you don't want anyone else to read your data, you store it encrypted.
If you want to freely share it, you store it plain. Either way, only yourself and the people you
have authorized to do so can implement changes. No one holds and controls the data exclusively, no
one can read it, unless you allow him to.

For detailed instructions, including pictures of the various steps to create a new identity, open
the "[Create an Identity](/tutorial/create-identity)" chapter.

## [Let's have a Look at your Profile and Data](/tutorial/dashboard)

You are logged in already, aren't you?

Have you added the Taskboard Bookmark? It is a Smart Contract, a data contract of its own.

Unlike the bookmark links you store in the browser, this isn't stored just on your single browser
installation. And unlike the synced bookmarks in your Apple account for example, this isn't stored
in a data center controlled by Apple, in which they can mine data or that even might go down or
expire when you stop paying your fees. Those are stored in the blockchain. Available from anywhere,
as long as the network exists.

For detailed instructions, including pictures of the various steps to add favorites to your
evan.network dashboard, open the [Dashboard](/tutorial/dashboard)" chapter.

## [Finally the Taskboard](/tutorial/taskboard)

After the taskboard was added, you will be able to [create tasks](/tutorial/taskboard) within the taskboard. While working with tasks you will come accross the requirement of coordinating with others.

## [Who do I work with? The Contacts](/tutorial/contacts)

You can add anyone in evan.network to [your contacts](/tutorial/contacts). And you can invite anyone
with an e-mail address into evan.network to become your contact. They all have or will get a profile
Smart Contract, just like you.

## [Talking to Each Other: The Mailbox](/tutorial/mailbox)

We call the messages sent and stored in [evan.network Bmails](/tutorial/mailbox), equivalent to
E-mails. And the communication style is similar to E-mails, because it doesn't really lend itself to
instant messaging and chatting due to the blockchain transaction delays.

There is one major difference to E-mails though: you always have a sender, the sender can't be
forged and every BMail costs EVEs. So spam cannot really exist. Whenever anyone sends spam, it will
cost him a lot and he or she is instantly identfied and can be blocked permanently.



