---
title: FAQ
parent: Other
nav_order: 9100
permalink: /docs/other/faq.html
---

# FAQ

**Business Model Questions**

#### Q.
***What’s the vision of evan.network?***

#### A.
evan.network is a blockchain based B2B cooperation network build on European trust.

In an increasingly networked world, the pressure of competition is becoming harder and globalized. To be competitive, every company needs to focus on it’s own core competency and to work in a dynamic network of partner organizations for offering exciting services to their customers all over the world. So the evan.network is a global, decentralized enterprise network based on blockchain technology. It is organized and operated by trustful European companies. Based on the evan.network, all companies or organizations can realize their decentralized use cases.


#### Q.
***What are the benefits of evan.network?***

#### A.
The benefits are:
* **Cost savings.** Manual processes are replaced by digitized transactions, regardless of the technological maturity of the involved partners.

* **Trustful.** Based on blockchain framework, companies work together digitally and automatically without losing their data sovereignty.

* **Less manual interaction.** Supplier communication completely digital, coordination of suppliers through Smart Contracts, automatic tracking and quality assurance.

* **Increase delivery reliability.** Fluctuating demands along the supply chain are detected earlier. Problems in the supply chain are easily apparent to all involved parties.

* **Find trusting partners.** Find reliable (rated) suppliers for new production sites or bottlenecks of well-known partner companies.

* **Tamper-proof.** Consistent digital, audit-proof data collection based on immutable blockchain technology.

#### Q.
***What is the token used in evan.network?***

#### A.
The main idea of evan.network is to build a stable, predictable and cost efficient enterprise blockchain.
The evan.network token used in the platform is called "EVE". It can be used to pay for transactions on the evan.network.

The token is sold via WebShop and partners. There is no public token sale planned for EVE Token. So the EVE Token is not speculative but stable and predictable. The revenue from EVE Token sales is the income of the network governance organization.
With the evan.network, manual processes are replaced by digital transactions, regardless of the technological maturity of the partners involved. The cooperation in evan.network enables companies to retain their existing partner and to attract new, previously unknown partner. This would make communication, data exchange and partner orchestration more cost efficient by reducing manual processes.

#### Q.
***Who are the partners in & owners of the ecosystem?***

#### A.
The evan.network is an Ethereum based enterprise blockchain, operated as a consortium chain without a central node operator. Network affiliates can be users and AuthorityNodes. User can join the network and implement various use cases. [AuthorityNodes](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html) can participate in the further development and vote on new functions of the evan.network.

#### Q.
***What’s the main differentiator of this solution compared to its competitors?***

#### A.
From an organizational point of view, evan.network provides a blockchain network platform, which combines the benefits of public blockchains, with regard to decentralization, with the benefits of private chains, especially considering performance, data privacy and energy consumption. The evan.network consortium model allows a decentralized blockchain network, operated on an European legal basis.
From a technological point of view, evan.network is based on Ethereum, the most widespread blockchain technology. evan.network enhances the technology by many features, required to build successful decentralized business applications. Such enhancements are

* An advanced identity management
* Various ready-to-use Smart Contract templates
* A data privacy layer
* The possibility to connect machines and blockchain in a secure way

Due to the technical architecture of evan.network, it provides a high transaction processing rate and endless scaling. Since the evan.network enterprise services are all based on the Ethereum core-technology itself, the compatibility to further upgrades of the Ethereum core stack can be ensured.

#### Q.
***Who is in charge of the governance of the ecosystem, what is the organizational structure of this party? How is the governing party incentivized?***

#### A.
evan GmbH acts as legal body of a Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), consisting of all [AuthorityNode](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html) operators (Affiliates). All essential participation rights for shaping and developing the network itself are transferred from the evan GmbH into the DAO, where every Affiliate has voting rights for making decisions. Affiliates are active participants of the network and vote for organizational, operational and product-roadmap related issues.

#### Q.
***Are there any restrictions to the access of the ecosystem? Are there different roles? What are those roles and who can fulfill them?***

#### A.
Everybody has the possibility to sync the chain or access the chain via RPC calls.
To execute transactions on the chain, users needs to create an account first. Accounts can be created from everyone that accepts the blockchain framework usage- and data privacy rights and has EVE tokens to pay for the transactions.


This account is secured with an account specific Mnemonic string, from which the private key is built. A regular account can be either a company or an user. Users can also interact on behalf of a company account.
In the Smart [Contract templates](/docs/developers/data-contract.html) the network has a complete role based permission system implemented. So it is really easy for developers to write contracts that support solutions where different accounts can be invited into a contract to share data and functionalities.

The solution also offers Smart Contract hardforks, to remove users from the Smart Contract or from a specific role. So a removed user can read the past where he or she was a permissioned member but can’t read the future data where he or she isn’t a member anymore.

To join the network as a [AuthorityNode](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html), you have to become an Affiliate, which comes along with an active participation in the evan.network organization, and you have to sign a AuthorityNode Operations Agreement.

______________________________________________________


**Technical Questions**

#### Q.
***What is the underlying distributed ledger technology?***

#### A.
The offered blockchain framework is based on Ethereum private blockchain, operated as a consortial blockchain.
Every [AuthorityNode](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html) hosts a Parity V1.10.x node to build the core network. The nodes are managed by a [Smart Contract](/docs/how_it_works/smart-contracts.html), that signals all AuthorityNodes whether a software upgrade is needed or a hardfork must be done. So extensive software management on the AuthorityNode site is not needed. The Smart Contract itself is controlled by the DAO Smart Contract, operated by the evan.network, where the partners vote for needed upgrades or potential chain-forks.


#### Q.
***What kind of consensus protocol is used in the evan.network?***

#### A.
A Smart Contract based [Proof Of Authority](/docs/developers/concepts/blockchain.html.html) consensus is used. [AuthorityNode](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html) operators (Affiliates) are added to the group of authorities (DAO). Only these are able to sign new blocks.
The network doesn’t use competitive mining on the chain and also the transactions fees are not distributed to the AuthorityNode that signed a new block (gas is burned). All AuthorityNodes are working for the same goal - a save, fast and cost-efficient chain.

#### Q.
***What is the maximum of transactions per second?***

#### A.
This depends on the types of transactions performed. There is a maximum amount of 950 transactions per second possible. This amount of transactions can only be achieved with transactions that use the minimum amount of gas. The evan.network has a minimum block time of 3 seconds.
There are also plannings to add sharding and other performance optimization technologies to the evan.network as soon as they are available in Ethereum.

Furthermore, there is an ongoing work for subchain support, to allow [AuthorityNodes](/docs/how_it_works/authoritynode.html) to connect a private subchain to the evan.network using a bridge. With subchains, partners have full control over the subchain and still take advantage of the core evan.network.

#### Q.
***Which challenges are solved with the evan.network and which features are addressed in the solution?***

#### A.
**Challenge 1:**    Trustful digital value exchange

Features:
* Secure exchange of digital values and documents
* Trustful interaction between individuals, machines and corporates
* Automate administrative cross-company processes

**Challenge 2:**    Decentralized Identity Management

Features:
* Identities and profiles for individuals and companies
* Self-controlled identity for all business networks
* Confirmation of identity and trust

**Challenge 3:**    End-to-End Tracking

Features:
* Process transparency and tracking
* Tracking of assets like products and parts
* Tamper-proof asset history

**Challenge 4:**    Decentralized Marketplaces & Matchmaking

Features:
* Easy to find and connect with partners
* Digital matchmaking of supply and demand

**Challenge 5:**    Trustful M2M Communication

Features:
* Digital asset representation
* Secure machine to blockchain communication

#### Q.
***Who can contribute to further developments and how to get involved?***

#### A.
Chain specifications, operation configurations, chain management Smart Contracts and Smart Contract templates will be made available under open source at GitHub.
evan also releases [DBCP](/docs/developers/concepts/dbcp.html) (distributed business communication protocol), a toolchain for [Smart Contract](/docs/how_it_works/smart-contracts.html) and [ÐApp](/docs/developers/ui/writing-dapps.html) specifications under open source. With these library developers can describe in a manifest a ÐApp and how it works together with security, role models, name service.


#### Q.
***Is it possible for third parties to implement software modules to add further features around the core application?***

#### A.
It's not only possible but very welcomed and intended. The evan.network is an open platform to create distributed application. The network is open to everyone to create and use Smart Contracts and [ÐApps](/docs/developers/ui/writing-dapps.html).
