evan.network supports Smart Contracts that are compatible with Ethereum technology (EVM). For the simple creation of specific business relationships, evan.network offers various basic Smart Contracts that make it easier for developers to implement business applications. These Smart Contracts offer functionalities such as rights and role management at business logic and data level, upgradeability, versioning and data encryption.
Business Center or application-specific characteristics can be derived from these basis Smart Contracts, for example:

- **Capa Contract** - Easy management of requests for available capacities for a specific requirement within the Business Center. Capacity requests are sent to users known by name or all users who meet certain profile criteria and can be answered automatically or via Capa-ÐApp. One or more relevant offers can be selected from the answers and an order in the form of a Business Contract can be concluded with the corresponding network partners. 
Inquiries for services or rentals can also be defined and answered via Capa Contracts.

- **Business Contract** - A Business Contract defines a specific business transaction between two or more network partners and is comparable to a classic contract or order. It does not matter whether the Business Contract is closed directly or as a result of a previous Capa Contract request. Business Contracts can describe on-off and recurring orders. In addition to the contract conditions, a Business Contract can also contain almost any user data required for contract performance (access data, CAD data, etc.) or arising during contract performance (e.g. log data, production progress, performance reports, etc.).

- **Digital Twin Contract** - The Digital Twin Contract represents a real good in the blockchain, gives it an identity and enables it to securely exchange transactions and data with other users or goods. In a Digital Twin, real goods (e.g. machines, components etc.) but also concrete orders (e.g. logistics) can be provided with a digital identity. Via the Digital Twin Contract, data can be securely stored and, if required, specifically released to third parties. The Digital Twin can enter into contractual relationships with other users as well as with other Digital Twins, for example to allocate capacities of service technicians (capa contract). These are then ordered via the Business Contract. The Digital Twin stores and manages information about the real goods it represents, permanently and tamper-proof.

To ensure updateability and to solve the backward compatibility of derived Smart Contracts, each derived Smart Contract receives a fixed assignment to a ÐApp and a technical description of its structure (DBCP). This ensures that a Smart Contract can always be operated by network partners, even if technologies change or new versions of the Smart Contract are created.

## Account Management

To interact in evan.network, users, organizations or machines need an account. The account for real users is created during onboarding at the first login. A user profile is created with his public and private key, as well as an address book and a mailbox. The relationships of an user with other users are stored in the address book by storing the public keys of the accounts of the respective network partners required to decrypt the communication. In the mailbox of an account, notifications of invitations to this account are stored in contracts of other accounts. 

Real users can be grouped into organizations to appear under their identity. This is used to map the relationship of users in a real organization. This allows contracts to be concluded between organizations, which then have to be served or signed by one or more real users. 

Within a Business Center, the information in the profiles of the user and organization accounts is extended by subject-specific data. This makes it easy to find users and organizations within the Business Center and to initiate business. This specific profile information can be entered directly when a user or organization is admitted to the Business Center or collected automatically while working in the Business Center. An example of an automated date is the calculated delivery on time (key figure: delivery reliability) based on the completed business relationships.


## Interaction with Smart Contracts and Business Centers

The interaction capabilities in a Business Center should enable simple interaction between end users, IT systems and machines. Starting from today's mostly manual forms of communication, an automation of cross-company cooperation can be implemented step by step.

To interact as user or machine in evan.network, a network account is required. An account can be created directly via onboarding (self-service) or via an invitation. An invitation is sent by an existing user or Smart Contract on the network. In the invitation, you can control whether a user is invited directly to a Business Center or to a specific Smart Contract. In addition, EVEs can be sent directly to the invited user as part of the invitation process, so that the new user is immediately ready to work in the network. The invitation is sent either as a technical invitation via an API or by an user using an e-mail address. The invitation email contains an invitation text and a link to the onboarding ÐApp. This ÐApp guides the new user through the registration process, where he or she has to confirm e.g. terms and conditions and data protection and gets an own account with private key and Mnemonic. After successful registration, the user has an evan.network identity with which he or she can now participate in the Business Center and Smart Contract.

Every interaction with Business Centers and Smart Contracts takes place via ÐApps. Users interact with the respective ÐApp via web or mobile browsers. ÐApps are HTML applications loaded from the blockchain and make it easy for the user to work with Smart Contracts and evan.network interactively. 

To communicate with Smart Contracts from your own applications and ÐApps, evan.network provides APIs in form of a JavaScript library and developer documentation. Thus, own applications can be implemented and operated on evan.network.

For an automation of the business relations, evan.network offers APIs to all Smart Contracts. Hence, the evan.network can be connected to own systems and a direct integration of business processes can be carried out. Furthermore, it is possible to add logic and workflow addons in the evan.network with the help of [Smart Agents](/dev/smart-agents). They are operated by the respective Smart Agent provider and can enable workflow-supported communication of the evan.network with existing IT systems and machines. Smart Agents can be invited into a Smart Contract, just like users, and thus receive access to its contents. The Smart Agent constantly checks the contract for changes and can automatically initiate new processes according to predefined rules as soon as it finds one.  
If the user has the rights, he or she can also add content to the Smart Contract. Via Smart Agents, the invitation via email or the mobile push notifications are solved in the evan.network. They combine the "blockchain world" with other technologies.

## Scalability
A big challenge to blockchain technology is the number of possible parallel transactions. There is still no final solution for realistically achieving almost infinite scalability within a blockchain. To counter this fact the evan.network is structured in such a way that the organization and technology of the MasterNodes make it possible to launch specialized or use case specific SideChains at any time. These are also subject to DAO governance but, depending on your setup, configuration and rules, allow you to perform specified use cases in much higher volumes. The technologies and services used in evan.network such as the name service or DBCP descriptions make it easier for users and developers to interact seamlessly with their contracts and ÐApps regardless of this technical separation.
