---
title: "DID"
parent: Developers
grand_parent: Concepts
nav_order: 4160
permalink: /docs/developers/concepts/did.html
---

# Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)
A decentralized identifier, or DID, is a means to claim and manage an identity that is verifiable, independent, and self-sovereign. The owner of the identity is the only one who can proof ownership over and make changes to this identity. The DID itself is only a reference pointing to a DID document containing the information necessary for authentication.
For an in-depth explanation of DIDs, please refer to the [W3C DID working draft](https://w3c.github.io/did-core).

## DIDs in evan.network

Every identity in evan has an according DID that points to its DID document. The DID always has the format `did:evan:<network>:<id>` where the network can be `core` or `testcore`. The id is either a 20-character for *account identities* or a 32-character address for *asset identities*.

An example address for an account identity looks like the following:
```
did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33
```
For more details about evan DID addresses, please refer to the [evan DID method specification](https://github.com/evannetwork/concepts/blob/master/DID/did_method_spec_draft.md).

### Resolving DIDs
evan.network offers a DID resolver service for both on-chain and off-chain use cases.
For on-chain use cases you can query the [respective API methods]().

For off-chain use cases evan.network provides a REST service at
```
https://agents.test.evan.network/api/resolve/{did}
```
which resolves a valid DID to the according DID document. evan.network also provides a very lean [node package](https://github.com/evannetwork/did-resolver) to consume the REST service.

In case you want to implement your own resolver service, you can use the [evan DID method specification](https://github.com/evannetwork/concepts/blob/master/DID/did_method_spec_draft.md).

### Updating DID Documents
DIDs and DID documents are assigned to evan.network identities upon creation.
To apply changes you can either use the evan UI or the [evan API](https://github.com/evannetwork/api-blockchain-core).
You must be either the owner or the controller of the identity to apply modifications.

Allowed updates include
- changing the identity's controller
- adding and removing delegates
- adding and removing service endpoints that are to be associated with your DID

The `controller` and `authentication` properties also allow to map evan.network's rights & roles model to DIDs.

### evan Identity Types
Identities in evan.network can vary in their type.
Each type implies a different DID format and different features.
The following describes each type, their attributes, and their individual differences.

**Account Identity**<br>
Account identitiy types can be either a company, a device, or a user. These identities are created via the onboarding process. They are owned by a person and have their own means of authentication via the `publicKey` and `authentication` properties in the DID document. Changes to the DID document itself can only be performed by the owner or another account identity referenced via the `controller` property of the DID document. Upon creation the `controller` property is set to the owner of the identity.

The following sample shows an account identity's DID document. The account identity provides their own means of authentication by providing a public key.
```js
{
    '@context': 'https://w3id.org/did/v1',
    id: 'did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33',
    publicKey: [
        {
            id: 'did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33#key-1',
            type: [ 'Secp256k1SignatureVerificationKey2018', 'ERC725ManagementKey' ],
            publicKeyHex: '0x35e97ef6169c82a0f6f0fe287a103f04103f7ccd83c8583af30ea9914d6e76a0'
        }
    ],
    authentication: [
         'did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33#key-1'
    ],
    service: []
}
```

**Asset Identity**<br>
Asset identities, or assets, are created and owned by an account identity and have no own means of authentication. The owner of the asset is also the `controller` of the DID document and is exclusively allowed to make changes to the it. The owner is also registered with the identity via the `authentication` field of the DID document and is thus allowed to authenticate in its name.

The following sample shows an asset identity's DID document. The asset has no `authentication` means and only points to its owner's account identity which is delegated to authenticate in this asset identity's name, as well as apply changes to the DID document (via the `controller` property).

```js
{
    '@context': 'https://w3id.org/did/v1',
    id: 'did:evan:0x071be9398b832d711b2e6278eba372ec968d8073e33a9cac9289c3ed06fc0701',
    controller: 'did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33',
    authentication: [
        'did:evan:0xb9A7884DEf4F8E503C50068dCB03d2393cBDFA33#key-1'
    ],
    service: []
}
```

**External Reference Identities**<br>
In evan you can create skeleton identities that reference external ressources. This allows you to create verifications over ressources or entities outside of the blockchain. These identities can be addressed via their DID just like every other identity and are managed like an account identity.
